Updates Badging API article for new origin trial (#1737)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/badging-api/index.md

| 1. Create explainer                        | [Complete][explainer]        |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification   | [Complete][spec]             |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design     | [In progress](#feedback)     |

> | **4. Origin trial**                        | v2 (Chrome 79-80) [In progress](#ot)<br>v1 (Chrome 73-78) [In progress](#backwards-compat) |

Reviewer: @mgiuca is this trial definitely finishing in M80?

Reviewer 2: Currently it's scheduled for the standard 3 milestones (79-81). We might cut it short but for now, just say 81 here.

Author: Updated.

4. Click the **Set** or **Clear** button to set or clear the badge from the app
   icon. You can also provide a number for the *Badge value*.

## How to use the Badging API {: #use }

The Badging API is available as an origin trial in Chrome 79 and later.

> The Badging API works on Windows, and macOS. Support for ChromeOS is in

Reviewer 2: "Chrome OS" should have a space in it.

Author: Fixed

development and will be available in a future release of Chrome.
Unfortunately, Android is not supported because it requires you to show a

> notification, though this may change in the future.

Reviewer 3: I'm a little confused by this. Notifications seem like they're orthogonal to whether Android lets me alter the appearance of the status bar icons.

Reviewer: It isn't ideal but on Android, you have no control over the badges displayed in the launcher.

Some launchers may choose to display the number of unread notifications as a badge on the app icon, but apps cannot control the number directly.

(I'm assuming you meant the launcher icons, not the status bar icons)

Reviewer 3: I'm having trouble with this, specifically:

>Android is not supported because it requires you to show a
notification

Huh?

Reviewer: Badges on the Android homescreen

![Android Badges](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/WICG/badging/master/images/android-badge.png)

are not independent of your unread notifications whereas the badging API aims to be. For example, to achieve Badge.set(99), we would have to send the user 99 notifications (which doesn't seem reasonable).

In the above image, the user must have at least one notification for both Twitter and Fitbit in their notification center.

**Note:** Some launchers on Android display counts instead of just a dot.

Reviewer 3: Obviously this isn't the place to explain that complexity. An explanation that is vague is not helpful either. I would remove the explanation and simply say that Android is not supported but we hope it will in the future. Word it how you like.

Reviewer 2: Agree with @jpmedley .

Well, I think saying "Android is not supported" is a little misleading since Android PWAs *already* have badges, if they show a notification. Essentially, this is WAI on Android: you don't get explicit control over your badges, they just come for free with notifications.

How about:

> On Android, the Badging API is not supported. Instead, Android automatically shows a badge on a web app when there is an unread notification, just like for native apps.

Author: Done!

### Register for the origin trial {: #ot }

{% Aside 'caution' %}
In Chrome 79 (stable Dec 2019), the first origin trial ended, and was replaced
by a new origin trial that uses a slightly different API design. Unfortunately,
it is not backwards compatible, and calls to the previous API will fail. See
[Supporting both the first and second origin trial](#backwards-compat) for
details on how to provide backwards compatibility.
{% endAside %}

{% include 'content/origin-trials.njk' %}

{% include 'content/origin-trial-register.njk' %}

If necessary, you can

> [request a token](https://developers.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/1711367858400788481)

Reviewer: I think we're planning on removing this when M79 goes stable (but I'm not 100% sure).

Author: According to @mgiuca, sounds like it's staying.

Reviewer: :+1:

for Chrome 78 and earlier.

### Alternatives to the origin trial

If you want to experiment with the Badging API locally, without an origin trial,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Setting and clearing a badge

To use the Badging API, your web app needs to meet
[Chrome's installability criteria](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/app-install-banners/#criteria),
and users must add it to their home screens.

The Badge API consists of the following methods on `navigator`:

* `setExperimentalAppBadge([number])`: Sets the app's badge. If a value is
  provided, set the badge to the provided value otherwise, display a plain
  white dot (or other flag as appropriate to the platform).
* `clearExperimentalAppBadge()`: Removes app's badge.

For example:

```js
// Set the badge
const unreadCount = 24;
navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge(unreadCount);

// Clear the badge
navigator.clearExperimentalAppBadge();
```

`setExperimentalAppBadge()` and `clearExperimentalAppBadge()` can be called from

> a foreground page, or potentially in the future, a service worker. In either

Reviewer 3: Unless we're really sure we going to do this, I wouldn't say what we want to do in the future.

Reviewer: There's some debate about how it will work from push but we're pretty confident that we're going to expose it from the service worked in the near future.

Android only ever shows a dot instead of a numeric value.

Don't assume anything about how the user agent wants to display the badge.
Some user agents may take a number like "4000" and rewrite it as
"99+". If you saturate the badge yourself (for example by setting it to "99")
then the "+" won't appear. No matter the actual number, just call
`setExperimentalAppBadge(unreadCount)` and let the user agent deal with
displaying it accordingly.

While the Badging API *in Chrome* requires an installed app, you shouldn't
make calls to the Badging API dependent on the install state. Just call the
API when it exists, as other browsers may show the badge in other places.
If it works, it works. If not, it simply doesn't.

## Supporting both the first and second origin trial {: #backwards-compat }

In Chrome 79, a [second origin trial]({{origin_trial.url}}) was started. Based
on developer feedback recevied during the first origin trial, the API has
changed, and is not backwards compatible with the first origin trial.

If you have an existing implementation, and want to provide backwards
compatibility for your users, you can wrap the calls in the following

> wrapper function. Once all of your users have migrated to Chrome 79+, you

Author: done.

> Don't assume anything about how the user agent wants to display the badge.

Reviewer 3: **For the paragraph starting 'In some cases'.**

In some cases or on some OSs?

'In this case' is the start of a new sentence. It needs to change to 'In such cases'.

'while the Badging API': Do you mean 'because the Badging API'?

Some user agents may take a number like "4000" and rewrite it as
"99+". If you saturate the badge yourself (for example by setting it to "99")
then the "+" won't appear. No matter the actual number, just call
`setExperimentalAppBadge(unreadCount)` and let the user agent deal with
displaying it accordingly.

While the Badging API *in Chrome* requires an installed app with an icon

> that can be badged, you shouldn't make calls to the Badging API dependent

Reviewer 3: What's an icon that can be badged?

Reviewer 2: Just drop "with an icon that can be badged".

> on the install state. Just call the API when it exists. If it works,

Reviewer 3: 'you shouldn't make calls to the Badging API dependent on the install state'

Is that because install states aren't comprehensible or meaningful to non-technical users? Maybe you should say why this is bad.

Reviewer: No, badges won't show up in Chrome unless the app is installed, as we need a dock/launcher icon to display them on. Setting a badge in an app that's in a tab is a no op in Chrome but it **might** do something in another browser (or in Chrome, in the future).

I think this is less important with the current version of the API than the old one, as we now have separate setClientBadge and setAppBadge methods.

Reviewer 3: I should have asked this differently. I'm still not clear on why I shouldn't make calls to the API depend on install state.

Reviewer: The user agent may choose to do something when the app is not installed. You don't want to break this.

Reviewer 3: Can you please make that clear in the article.

Author: Done.

it works. If not, it simply doesn't.

## Supporting both the first and second origin trial {: #backwards-compat }

In Chrome 79, the first origin trial ended, and based on developer feedback
received during the first origin trial, was replaced by a new origin trial

> that uses a slightly different API design. Unfortunately, it is not backwards

Reviewer 3: Delete 'slightly'. Renaming the API members and moving them to a different parent may not be a completely different design, but that seems more than slightly different. Also omit needless words.

compatible, and calls to the previous API will fail.

If you have an existing implementation, and want to provide backwards
compatibility for your users, you can wrap the calls in the following
wrapper function. Once all of your users have migrated to Chrome 79+, you

> can remove this wrapper function from your code.

Reviewer 3: Why would developers do this? When an OTs gone, it's gone. No one should ever be telling users to flip runtime flags. Am I missing something?

Reviewer 3: Is it because the OT in 78 and earlier is continuing until February? I don't think you make that clear anywhere.

Reviewer: One trial for < 79, one for >= 79. But yeah, might need to clarify :)

Reviewer 3: Please do.

```js
function setBadge(...args) {
  if (navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge) {

>     navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge.apply(navigator, args);

Reviewer 2: @fallaciousreasoning pointed out that you can actually do this much more cleanly without `apply`:

```js
  if (navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge) {
    navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge(...args);
  } else if (window.ExperimentalBadge) {
    window.ExperimentalBadge.set(...args);
  }
```

Author: Done!

Some user agents may take a number like "4000" and rewrite it as
"99+". If you saturate the badge yourself (for example by setting it to "99")
then the "+" won't appear. No matter the actual number, just set

> `setAppBadge(unreadCount)` and let the user agent deal with displaying it

Reviewer: Should this be:
```suggestion
`navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge(unreadCount)` and let the user agent deal with displaying it
```

Author: Updated!

accordingly.

> While the Badging API *in Chrome* requires an installed app with an icon

Reviewer: I like this :)

that can be badged, you shouldn't make calls to the Badging API dependent
on the install state. Just call the API when it exists. If it works,
it works. If not, it simply doesn't.

{% Aside %}
  Once the origin trial is completed, the API should switch to

>   `navigator.setAppBadge()`.

Reviewer: I suspect we don't want to say this. While we're pretty confident (but not certain) that this is what we'll move to I don't think we want to encourage developers to set their app up to use this.

Part of the point of the origin trial is that things break (which is why we had to name the API `xxxExperimentalAppBadge` in the first place).

Reviewer 2: I agree. The practical subtext of this paragraph is "you can just detect `setAppBadge` or `setExperimentalAppBadge` and call whichever is available". We don't want people predicting what the final API is going to be, because otherwise they won't have to do any work to change over to it when we launch.

So remove this para.

Author: Removed.

{% endAside %}

## Supporting both the first and second origin trial {: #backwards-compat }

In Chrome 79, the first origin trial ended, and based on developer feedback
received during the first origin trial, was replaced by a new origin trial
that uses a slightly different API design. Unfortunately, it is not backwards
compatible, and calls to the previous API will fail.

If you have an existing implementation, and want to provide backwards
compatibility for your users, you can wrap the calls in the following
wrapper function. Once all of your users have migrated to Chrome 79+, you

> can remove this wrapper function from you code.

Reviewer 2: s/you/your/

Reviewer: ?

Reviewer 2: "from you code" -> "from **your** code"

Author: Fixed

```js
function setBadge(...args) {

>   if (navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge) {

Reviewer: Is it worth explaining why this unholiness is necessary?
(I'm so sorry)

Author: I think it's too much of an aside that gets into the weeds of JavaScript vs how to use the badging api. Willing to hear push back though if you think it's important.

Reviewer: Nah, SGTM :)

    navigator.setExperimentalAppBadge.apply(navigator, args);
  } else if (window.ExperimentalBadge) {
    window.ExperimentalBadge.set.apply(null, args);
  }
}

function clearBadge() {
  if (navigator.clearExperimentalAppBadge) {
    navigator.clearExperimentalAppBadge();
  } else if (window.ExperimentalBadge) {
    window.ExperimentalBadge.clear();
  }
}
```

{% Aside %}
Be sure to include both the

> [first](https://developers.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/1711367858400788481),

Reviewer: Again, I think this is going to disappear. @mgiuca?

Reviewer 2: No, we've got approval to keep this trial running until February. The token won't work in Chrome 79, but the token will still be available so you can use it on your site and maintain compat with Chrome 78.

Reviewer: 👍
